So in the last lecture, we started setting up our mongodb on a cloud storage
or maybe you install it locally, in both situations or in both ways,
you have a database, at least soon
and now we need a way to connect to that database from within our node express application.
And for that, we'll use a third party package,
now actually there are two packages we could use. We'll install it with npm,
so the command will be npm install --save to also store an entry in the package.json file
and now we could use the normal mongodb client package.
You'll also find a link to that on the mongodb page,
if you scroll up there, here on docs, you can access the official documentation
and then here you can click on getting started and there you find a nodejs section where it explains to
you how you can connect to it and this code here actually uses this mongodb nodejs driver
which you can download by following the installation instruction here and as you can see, the package name
would be mongodb installed
through node's package manager.
Now we'll not use that
driver, this is a defined driver and you can access your database with it,
you can also access it directly from your shell
by the way but we'll not do this for now
but I want to use a different package for accessing mongodb,
I'll use mongoose. Mongoose is a third party package which builds up on the official mongodb driver
but it makes accessing mongodb much easier and more convenient.
It does something which I told you that mongodb does not really use, mongoose uses schemas, so you
can define how your data should look like and that allows you to conveniently store and fetch data.
Now obviously this might not be the solution you're looking for if you have the requirement of very
unstructured data but often that's not the case and therefore, mongoose is a great tool that could even work
with such unstructured data
by the way but especially if you have structured data, if you have a certain model you use.
So mongoose is that package we'll use
and we simply install it by running npm install --save mongoose, like this in your project folder.
So now this will download and add this dependency and this tool will then allow us to connect to our
mongodb server and also to interact with it, store data and fetch data. For now storing and fetching
means storing and fetching posts,
so in the next lecture, we'll actually start creating a schema for our post data in our nodejs app
before we finally make that connection to mongodb and well, start storing and fetching our data to and from
there.